hello everyone my name is Alex 'martha
expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language comm and welcome to your et
tasks of the week and today we are
working on IELTS reading match headings
in today's class I'll explain how the
match headings task works
I'll give you an unbelievably simple
method guide you through some practice
and as always there'll be some time for
solo practice as well so match headings
what does it look like well in today's
lesson I'm gonna show you how this looks
on computer-delivered Isles but if
you're taking the paper-based IELTS no
worries just pop over to our blog blog
dot e to language comm and you can see
what it looks like in the paper
delivered version so in the computer
delivered IELTS match headings task
looks something like this you've got
your text over here on the left with
gaps above each paragraph one two three
four then of course the instructions
they'll say the text has five six seven
whatever sections choose the correct
heading for each section and move it
into the gap and then you have your list
of headings so on the computer test you
basically just pick up one of the
headings and drag it into the box simple
even simpler than that is the method
that we're going to follow this is here
two steps one read the paragraph and to
choose the heading so these question
types a little bit different to other
question types usually we'll start with
the question and go to the text but in
this match headings task we go from the
text to the questions it's a much more
efficient way to do it let me show you
so step one is to read the paragraph of
course this is just a sample here just
jargon so we're not really going to read
but you would start by reading the
paragraph and then you would go to the
heading the first heading social impacts
of stress then the second heading the
third heading the fourth heading the
fifth heading and so on so going in a
very orderly way you read
the paragraph read read read read read
and then you jump to the first heading
and go all the way through there's a
real temptation here to go back and
forth up and down through the reading
with this kind of thing back to the
paragraph down to the bottom heading
back up this kind of reading is a
complete disaster this is a real waste
of time so trust me when I tell you that
you need to approach this in a very
orderly calm way let's go we're gonna
look at it real text now I'm going to
show you five paragraphs and ten
headings and I'll help you with the
first one here is paragraph one I'll
read it
despite its bad reputation stress
historically had a vital role to play
commonly referred to as the
fight-or-flight mode the sudden release
of stress hormones like adrenaline and
cortisol causes the heart to beat faster
Airways to dilate and blood vessels to
open up all of which push the body
towards optimal performance and
ultimately survival in the rest of the
animal kingdom this is still often the
difference between life and death as he
Springs off to freedom the lucky gazelle
who escapes the lion can thank this
primal evolutionary response I know what
you're thinking Alex is too slow I don't
have that much time in the test but
actually you do have that much time the
trick is that you read the paragraph
once only resist the temptation to go
back and start reading it again so I've
read it once I've got in my mind what
it's basically about about stress about
survival about animals so now I need to
match the heading to the paragraph here
are the list of headings by the way if
you're doing computer base you won't
have the numbers next to it I've just
added them here to help you as you play
along at home so while I've got the
paragraph
in my mind I'm gonna go through a
top-to-bottom of the headings
okay effect of city life on mental
health now I have to ask myself did I
read that in the paragraph was that the
main point and I answer yes no or if I
can't remember
maybe so city life and mental health no
it didn't mention that was the paragraph
about stress reduction in animals well I
saw mention of animals but was it about
stress reduction in animals no it wasn't
two types of stress no I didn't read
about two types of stress the fall out
or the impact of cell death no I didn't
read that the best type of exercise and
know how stress can be useful I know I
did read here about house just can't be
helpful for survival how it can help
reach optimal performance it can save
the lives of animals so this is probably
the heading but I'm gonna keep on
reading here managing stress in job
interviews nope one reason behind bad
tempers no neuron loss in childhood no
regrowing the brain with exercise no so
I'm fairly settled here that this is the
correct head and I can double check
really quickly stress had a vital role
to play push the body towards optimal
performance ultimately survival this is
the correct heading now the reason that
I kept reading even after I found the
correct answer was one just to
double-check that there wasn't a better
heading and two because I'm gonna read
now paragraph two three four I want to
have all the headings in my mind so the
first paragraph
sometimes it takes a bit longer because
I'm reading slowly and carefully through
the whole list of headings but as I get
to paragraph four and five I'll be much
quicker and I've almost memorized those
headings so don't skip that step make
sure you read through all the headings
okay it's over to you now I'm going to
give you paragraph two and three and
I'll give you three minutes to do this
remember the method
read the paragraph first and read it
once only and then read through all the
headings and choose one good luck
how did you go there did you follow the
method and do you think you got the
right answers let's have a look together
just paragraph two and three I'm gonna
read through this one in ordinary modern
life although we're in little danger of
being stalked by wild beasts down city
streets our bodies react to stress in
the same ways experiencing anxiety fear
and stress it's considered to be a
normal part of life when it's occasional
and temporary such as feeling anxious
and stressed before an exam or job
interview it's when these acute
reactions are prolonged or cannot be
switched off however that serious
physical social and cognitive issues can
result in contrast to the normal
everyday stress of modern life chronic
stress is a pathological state which can
significantly interfere with daily
living activities such as work school
and relationships wreaking havoc on the
body's immune metabolic and
cardiovascular systems if I were doing
this on paper I would be drawing all
over this text and if I were doing it on
the computer I would be highlighting and
making notes on the screen I'm gonna
give you a little clue here this is
probably the most important part of the
paragraph let's go through the headings
together again ask yourself was this the
main point yes no or maybe
okay effective city life on mental
health now I read the word city streets
but was the whole paragraph about the
impact of city life no stress reduction
in animals no two types of stress now I
did read here about normal stress versus
chronic stress so this is possibly the
right answer but I'm going to keep
reading just in case the fall out of
cell death no I didn't read anything
about cell death best type of exercise
no mention of that managing stress and
job interviews I did see job interviews
mentioned I'm going to keep that one
highlighted one reason behind
bad tempers nope neuro loss in childhood
nothing there and regrowing the brain
with exercise note so I'm left with two
types of stress or managing stress in
job interviews now one of these is the
best heading and one of them is just a
detail from the paragraph so this word
job interviews it was in the paragraph
but the whole paragraph was not about
how to manage stress in job interviews
so the answer is two types of stress
let's go on to paragraph three and if
you went through the headings hopefully
you zoned in on maybe answer for the
fallout of cell death and perhaps answer
nine you're on loss in childhood again
one of these headings is the best one
because it describes the whole paragraph
neuron loss in childhood is not right
because the paragraph didn't mention
childhood I didn't focus on childhood
but it did mention the impact and the
effect of cell death so that's the
correct answer
over to you again there's two more
paragraphs and it's up to you to choose
the right headings again I'll give you
three minutes for this be sure to follow
the method good luck
okay time to check our answers so let's
start with paragraph four here and
hopefully you found that this was the
correct heading one reason behind bad
tempers this paragraph was all about how
a certain part of the brain can grow
with chronic stress and this part of the
brain is connected with aggression and
in the final sentence it mentions how a
person who's chronically stressed might
scream back at a screaming child this
leaves us now with paragraph five and
there were perhaps two headings that
caught your eye here maybe five the best
type of exercise and ten regrowing the
brain with exercise so this paragraph
did mention the benefits of exercise and
how it can help to replenish cells that
are lost you de-stress so you've got to
ask yourself what's the best heading
here is the whole paragraph about the
best type of exercise does it specify
which kind of exercise is best for you
or is it about regrowing parts of the
brain with exercise and I'm sure you
chose the right one which was number 10
so if you were doing paper-based test
your answer sheet would look like this
and as I mentioned pop over on to the
blog if you want to try the paper-based
format it does look a little bit
different but the methodology is exactly
the same if you want some more practice
come along to our website eating
language dot-com and there you'll find
out huge IELTS course you'll be able to
submit work for speaking and running
feedback you can book one-on-one
tutorials and join our daily life group
classes thanks for coming along today
and I look forward to seeing you next
week
in our two tasks of the week happy
studying
[Music]